well it's the end of day three of MSI
2018 I'm joined by dodo right now with
coverage presented by the YouTube
description of this video
dodo first off people I know might think
that you are like a translator or they
know you've use former player can you
talk a little bit about what your role
is with Team Liquid yeah so after the
Amoros didn't make it to LCS I got into
Team Liquid as the assistant coach / the
translator and my main role of the team
was to obviously help we came with
translating but also to have the creator
structure within Team Liquid about the
the practice the practice and then how
we can improve as a team because
beforehand when Steve actually talked to
me about their previous seasons they
said they were lacking a lot of us
practice structures and regiment so I
focused a lot about that in morals so I
focus about how we can actually improve
as a team and I work with can really
wall so that's my primary role and I
guess my secondary role is D the
translating I wanted to talk to you
somebody from the team to get a sense of
what is actually going on because I
think the first day the team went zero -
there was like a maybe a good start
against King zone but I lost there and
then by the second day whenever there
was kind of like the 0-4 record everyone
was started to really feel like the sky
was falling with with TL and and with
the whole a sub out and all that so
maybe you can speak a little bit to what
has been happening in the past couple
days mm-hmm yes so the first day when we
started the msi about two days ago three
days ago I think the biggest problem
that we had as a team was every other
player didn't play on stage for about
3-4 weeks now and they were coming back
from a break but even after the the
bootcamp in Amsterdam after all the
practice I was sensing a lot of
nervousness not only olia but from other
players too
and then we weren't playing how we used
to play on stage there was a lot of
communication missing from all the
players and we were making a lot of
mistakes that we usually don't make so
it was very chaotic and we as coaching
staff and players were trying to figure
out what's going wrong and then during
that phase also after day one all they
especially had a very nervous breakdown
on stage and then after we got back and
we screened after the stage matches and
then after one game of scrims only it
wasn't recovered he actually brought on
the the nervousness from stage on -
screams - so when all they came up to me
and cane and he suggested that he wanted
to step down for a game he needed a
break and then we obviously had Joey
support a substitute so we had a long
talk and then we finally made a decision
that it is best for all a to step out
for one game and and take a break
because we didn't want to risk all that
going into day two and playing on stage
and having another nervous breakdown and
we didn't we didn't want to do that for
another because this is a five day
tournament where they don't want to risk
that and we wanted him to have a little
bit of break to recover and then come
back stronger and then after day two on
flatted game we decided to sub in Olli
again now he actually played a lot
better
his communication was a lot better to
you and also today against the RNG he's
Morgan a game was very good and he he
was just comfortable on stage again and
he was he was preferring very well but
but as a team would still have a lot of
improvement to make so we were working
on that
yeah I mean I I'm talking to some of the
fnatic players as we're gonna attack by
Birds and talking just some of the
fnatic players there was a sense that
I'm assuming the storms was from scrimps
that Team Liquid was supposed to be a
pretty strong team here and that sort of
things just went awry and so do you
think that
the communication issues really started
to hit on that first day when you got
onto the stage because it sent again it
seems like it's not just Olay even
though he might have been sort of like
the most public situation yeah so from
based on scream results because we were
screaming a lot against fnatic we were
screaming we can have before the stage
matches and our scream results were
actually really good even after we got
to Berlin we got with a chance to scream
some of the team's here as well and then
we were pretty happy with their scrim
results and we were actually really
confident going into stage but just I
think the nerves actually hit the guys
more than we thought it would and they
were not performing up to the level that
we expected them to perform at they were
in scrims so I think we just really need
to figure out what is going wrong in the
in the more basic level and then try to
figure out and then watch it in a
different perspective and try to learn
from our mistakes and learn from this
experience as a whole and just come back
stronger I think a lot of fans will be
surprised to hear that there's a nerves
issue I mean we're talking about you
know in the top line you have a player
that won a World Championship the other
three guys have all been on the
international stage multiple times and
big arenas quite frankly they're in a
smaller arena than where they play for
LCS so do you have any idea where why
besides you know Olli we'd be having
these issues I think the nerve issues is
a little bit contagious it's because the
team was operating as a unit and then
they had actually really good teamwork
going into the na LCS playoffs and
finals when one players started breaking
down there was a missing part in the
communication and then other other
players were panicking that there's a
missing part in the communication and it
was just a little about a little bit of
a domino effect and then yeah it just
affected the team as a whole a really
unfortunate that we couldn't have fear
that out like a lot earlier but I think
that was the case
if you don't mind me asking
realistically like how screwed is North
America for the rest of this right
because you won the game earlier today
but lost against King's Own which you
know despite flash holes maybe having
the best record so far I think a lot of
people think of Kings owners may be the
the strongest team here or the the one
that's most likely to win the whole
thing I like is there a chance that Team
Liquid can stabilize and get into a good
place in the next two days can should we
expect that or is it kind of a long road
ahead well right now obviously we don't
want to be in the spot where we want it
to be we are tied with ever sports in
one wins and 5 losses but I think just
as a whole I think as a team right now
we are not super discouraged or like
frustrated I think we are going in with
the mindset now to actually learn from
our mistakes and take this experience
with a more open mind and so we can come
back stronger for summer and even Worlds
- so for the next two days I know we
still have to play a lot of tough
opponents but I think we were still
trying to prepare a lot and there is a
slim chance that we can still go and
make it out of groups obviously some of
it it's not on our hands but I we
definitely haven't given up it's just we
were going to win with the different
mindset that we want to learn and
improve because all these teams are just
champions with other regions and this
tournament as a whole is just a great
lesson for like all the teams hey kind
of last question here but a lot of
frustration from the community has been
sort of targeted towards oleh who a lot
of people feel frustrated that he he
decided to opt out of playing and sort
of that it was his decision or or that
the coaching staff kind of allowed that
to happen what would you say to the
people out there who look at North
America's lost here and and look at Olli
is maybe a big factor in that yeah for
so-so for olay I know you guys were a
lot really frustrated of his decisions
and our coaching decision to something
after just one day of the tournament but
the issue was actually a lot more
serious than it was and we didn't want
to risk the fact that he was going to
play bad for the next three days or even
carry this over to the summer to play or
to the world so we took a chance to
actually give him a break and he also
accepted a very wall with this
suggestion so and also for any region as
a whole
I think this huge learning experience
will just make us a stronger
of course like we're frustrated and some
of our fans are frustrated that we
couldn't perform - up to our level but I
don't know what you guys do you feel
like the all hope is lost and we will
definitely come back stronger for Worlds
thank you so much Toto for the interview
looking forward to seeing what Team
Liquid can manage to pull off in the
next couple days for everyone else you
can check out the rest of my coverage of
all things eSports right here on my
youtube channel
yeah you're still here
we were hoping I promote my support page
at Travis Khafre comm slash support or
my patreon at patreon.com slash Travis
gaffer die I know I'm good it's over go
home